
##### General Rules
1. First Letter in Names and (Adjectives as Names) are capitalized, Also the first letter in the sentence.
2. The Vowels in German are (a, e, i, u, o).
3. In German E pronounced like A in English.
4. In German I pronounced Like E in pronounced
5. foreign word pronounced the same as their original language
6. b-d-g=p-t-k  if its at the last of the short word. Example Tag pronounced as Tak, halb pronounced halp and Kind, pronounced Kint, this rule what apply to plural does not apply to singular
7. th, tt,dt,ttt pronounced as t. Example Stadt pronounced as Stat
8. J Pronounced as ye in English. Example Juni
9. if the N  followed by the G,K they pronounced lightly and the N pronounced hardly 
10. V pronounced as f Example. fater
11. Y Pronounced like Ü Example Syrien it will be pronounced as Sürien
12. to convert a verb to a name you put das article Infront of it
13. the first letter that come after . ? ! : need to be capitalized.
14. duplicated consonant pronounced as one. Example the pp in Teppich => Tepish
15. the en in the end of the verb pronounced n Example. sagen => sagn

	
##### Long Pronunciation Rules
1.  If the H Come after A vowel and before a consonant we extend the pronunciation of the    vowel and we don't pronunciation the H. Example: fahren => faaren
2. IE pronounced Long E. Example: Lied
3. EI pronounced Long I. Example Leid
4. When Two vowels came together we extend their pronunciation. Example Tee
5. Open Syllable when a consonant come between two vowels the word pronounced like it was separated into parts. Example reden => re  den  The E in the re will be pronounced long 
6. What Applicable on Plural is also applicable on the Singular. for example Weg in Plural is Wege so we pronounce it We g  we extend the e in We. that because in the plural the rule number 5 applied so it will be also applied in the singular 
7. if a Vowel followed by ß it will be extended Example. Straße => Straaße
8. Words that always pronounced long are. Wer, Wen, Wem, er, der, den, dem, für

##### Short Pronunciation Rules
1. If there is consecutive consonant then we pronounce the word short. Example  Mann
2. Words that contain ck or x are pronounced short. example Zucker 
3. word that always pronounced short are. es Was


##### Umlaut
1. ä pronounced ae. Example Äpfel pronounced Aepfel 
2. ö pronounced a thick eo. Example König pronounced  Keoinsh
3. ü pronounced an even thicker e. Übung pronounced Ebong
##### ß & ss Rules
ß pronounced like ss and to distinguish between ß & ss there is the following rules 
1. its written ß if used after long vowels and diphthongs
2. its written ss if its preceded by short pronounced letter. Example Fluss
##### Ch Rules
1. Ch pronounced as kh if precedes by (a,o,u, au). Example Dach
2. Ch pronounced sh if it precedes by  (i,e,ä,ö,ü,äu)
3. Ch pronounced x if followed by (s)
4. Ch pronounced ka if it followed by(a,o,u,l,r)
##### S Rules
1. s pronounced as z if it followed by (a, e, i, o, u, au, ä, äu, ie, ei). Example Saft => Zaft
2. s pronounced s if its in the end of the word 
3. ss pronounced as s
4. st if its in the first of the word or the first syllable its pronounced sht, otherwise its pronounced st. Example Student, Haupt*st*raße
5. sp if its in the first of the word or the first syllable its pronounced shp, otherwise its pronounced sp. Example Sport
6. ski pronounced she. Example Skifahren
##### H Rules
1. H pronounced as H if its at the first of the word, First Syllable or if it was between to vowels. Example Hand, sehen
2. H omitted if its followed by a consonant and preceded by a Vowel
##### R Rules
1. R Pronounced as gh like how its pronounced in Baghdad in Arabic
2. R omitted if its at the end of the word and it preceded by e. Example Vater it pronounced as fata
3. if its in the first of the word or the syllable
4. R=a if its in the short word and its at the end. Example Uhr it pronounced as Uha
##### D Rules
1. pronounced as t if it came first or last in short word. Example Dame => Tame
2. pronounced as d in the long word. Example Deutschland
3. dt pronounced as t. Example Stadt =>Shtat
##### G Rules
1. at the first of the word its pronounced as G in English. Example gehen
2. at the end of the short word its pronounced as k. Example Tag => Tak
3. ig at the last of the word pronounced as ish. Example König => Kenish. except if the i that precede it made another Combined Letter like the word Teig =>Tiik.
keep in mind that the k here follow the second rule
4. ig at the end of syllable pronounced as ik in Königlich, Königreich



##### Combined Letters Rules
6. always pronounced long
7. au=ou. have the same pronunciation. the are pronounced as english aao  Example aus, Auto, auch
8. ei=ai=ey=ay have the same pronunciation. the are pronounced as long i . Example Ei, Mai, Seite, einfach
9. ie pronounced long e (e as in english e). Example Sie
10. eu=äu=oi=oy pronounced like aoe. Example Räuber
11. sch pronounced as a hard English sh
12. Ph pronounced as vh  in English
13. Pf sometime its pronounced only f and sometime its pf. Example about the first if Pfred
14. Pr Pronounced just like English Pkh with the kh pronounced lightly 
15. Qu Pronounced like Kv in English
16. tie pronounced tsa. Example Patient => patsaent
17. tion pronounced as English tseon. Example information
18. Ck Pronounced ka. Example Lecker
19. Tsch pronounced as like tsha . Example Tschüss => Tshoss
20. Chen pounced just like its corresponding in English 
##### First Letter Capitalization Rules
1. First Of Sentence is capitalized
2. Names of People or things are capitalized
3. Verb as Name are  capitalized
4. Adjectives as Names are capitalized
5. The Greetings  are capitalized
6. Sie, Ihnen (Formal Pronoun ) are capitalized
7. Abbreviations Example Deutsche Bahn = DB
8. Else are written with lower case
##### Emphasis Rule
 We Emphasis By Making the part sound distinguishable 
1. We Emphasis on the distinction between the part of separated verb. Example einkaufen => ein  kaufen
2. we Emphasis  on the separation of compounded word. Example Beispiel => Bei spiel
3. Sentence Accent Rule: When We Emphasis on a word in a sentence it become the main subject of the conversation. Example **Jetzt** fahre ich nach hause. here we  Emphasis that we are leaving to the house **now**. that also if we emphasis of fahre it become like we are saying we are leaving, so emphasis on that part  we indicate to the other party that the most our sentence revolve around us leaving no the time for example like in the first example. and this apply to every word in the sentence it convey a different meaning depend on part we emphasis on it
4. we emphasis on the last part of the first sentence in sentence that contain a secondary clause 